We've come to the end of this module, so let's do a quick recap.
First,
we learned about what Spring Boot Actuator is and a little bit behind its name.
We also learned that actuators are components that are
responsible for controlling a system.
They receive a signal and they generate some output.
Next,
we actually got started with Spring Boot Actuator
and how to add it to our projects.
We saw how to do it with Maven, with Gradle, and with Spring Initializr.
Then we really started diving in and learning what actuator endpoints are
and what Spring Boot Actuator provides out of the box.
We saw that it provides things like health checks and metrics
and information about a running environment.
We also saw that we can send it signals and instruct it to modify the system,
for instance, to change the log level.
We finished out the module with a deep dive on some of the more
important or more commonly-used endpoints.
Specifically, we looked at two different endpoints,
the health endpoint and the metrics endpoint.
We saw how the health endpoint is a lot more than what it looks
like on the surface and can actually be used to generate a
pretty comprehensive health check.
We also saw that the metrics endpoint supports a
wide array of monitoring systems, provides useful metrics by default,
and allows us to do easy customizations.
In the next module, we'll cover the important topic of security,
how to actually create those custom health checks and custom metrics, along with how to develop completely custom actuator endpoints.